grass is hard to process so grazers have
to consume vast amounts that means big
guts and big guts need a big body a diet
of grass also means eating for up to 16
hours per day and that leaves little
time for the other important tasks these
are Uganda cob the most abundant
antelope in the Western Rift Valley
somehow they find time to indulge in a
surprisingly complex mating ritual the
cob have a dedicated mating ground known
as a lek it's where males gather to
flaunt themselves and the females turn
up to pick a mate the male's want to
hold the best spot to win it they have
to fight
it's all to impress the ladies who are
very picky when it comes to choosing the
right mate
the females are after the buck with the
best blood the strongest male holding
the most coveted position right in the
middle of the lek
the female chooses her mate and then
allows him to test her scent for
hormones to confirm she's ready to mate
a female comes into season every 20 days
or so but is only receptive for a couple
of hours so there's not much time for
flirting
job done the exchange of genes is
complete now the female can relax under
the protection of her champion
you